>> The belief in oneness and its
connection towards the future
of humanity, this is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The concept of
oneness, or the belief
that we are all
connected, that everyone
is a part of a larger whole.
We may view
ourselves as separate
but also realize
we are still part
of some substance
of the universe
through element,
frequency, or vibration.
But who believes in oneness?
And what are the real-world
implications of this belief?
Researchers at Duke
University sought
to find out how common is this
belief and what does it mean.
Dr. Scott Barry Kaufman,
humanistic psychologist
and author of Transcend, The New
Science of Self-Actualization,
explored the studies in his
Scientific American article,
What Would Happen If
Everyone Truly Believed
Everything Is One?
>> So researchers
were really curious.
First of all, what's
the prevalence
of people who believe that we're
all part of a larger whole?
They found that only
about 25% of people
reported that they think about
the oneness of all things often
or many times.
So first of all, most
people don't even
think this sort of way.
These kinds of
thoughts are not even
permeating their consciousness.
But then in another step,
they create a scale,
a belief in oneness scale, which
had various items such as--
the separation among individual
things is an illusion.
In reality, everything is one.
The same basic essence permeates
everything that exists.
Beyond surface
appearances, everything
is fundamentally one.
Although many seemingly
separate things exist,
they're all part
of the same whole.
So these kinds of questions are
all measuring the same thing.
>> What is the significance
of these findings?
>> This kind of belief in
oneness was related to feelings
of connectedness with
distant people and aspects
of the natural world.
It was more correlated with that
than the feeling of closeness
with the ones that
already you're close with,
like your family and friends.
So that's interesting.
People who believe
in oneness actually
feel more strongly
related to distant people
than most people in their
lives and most connected people
in their lives.
That has a lot of implications
if you think about it,
a lot of implications
for our current political
and religious landscape
where everyone's
ripping their heads
off each other
because, well, you disagree
with my political point of view?
I never want to have anything
to do with you ever again.
But people who believe
in a sense of oneness
might be less likely to
immediately distance themselves
from someone who disagrees
with them just based
on more superficial
characteristics of what
it is to be human and look at
the deeper aspects of humanity.
>> If you don't
believe in oneness,
are you born with that,
or can you develop it?
>> Well, I think
these are beliefs.
These are belief systems.
We can change our beliefs.
Beliefs are very malleable.
Some people have
a growth mindset.
They tend to see--
think that we can grow and
change throughout our lives
than people who have
more of a fixed mindset.
They think that our talents
and our personalities
are set in stone,
intelligence set in stone.
Nothing we can do about it.
I think any of us can
really change our mindset.
It's a mindset.
It's a oneness mindset.
We can treat it like a
habit, like a muscle.
And the more we repeatedly treat
others in that kind of mindset,
the more we build that muscle.
The more we tend to focus on
other aspects of the human,
the more we build that muscle.
So I think there's real
changeability potential here.
>> These studies show that
the belief that we are all
connected through
frequency, vibration,
or part of some cosmic whole--
all individual pieces
but still one--
could have real-world
implications.
An increase in empathy, not
only for our fellow humans
but those in the animal
world, and a realization
we are the caretakers
of our environment.
We can greet each
other as fellow humans
first and individuals later.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]